Now let's go a little deeper into continuous delivery and continuous deployment.
With continuous delivery, you deploy to production only when you want to.
This could be done by either pushing a button to install in production,
sending an email to operations or other overt action the dev team will take.
So continuous delivery only takes you so far,
and is the culmination of the continuous integration process,
whereas continuous deployment is where there is no human intervention,
but is automatically deployed into production following all the rules
you set up in the path from backlog to deployment.
Important point, so to have continuous deployment,
you need to have continuous integration flowing completely and smoothly into
continuous deployment and automatically on to production.
Now, this still kind of scares me to this day,
but if you can do it,
then it's the best way to have a continuously flowing
value stream from backlog to production.
Is continuous deployment risky?
I say yes, and I mean yes it's risky if you are not doing it.
Continuous deployment automatically deploying builds directly into
production has been around for about 15 years.
If you are not doing continuous deployment, don't be alarmed.
It has taken time to take hold since so many organizations
find that approach to be very risky.
Take Google Chrome.
In the past,
you would have to take the action to download and install the latest build,
and now, if you choose to, the new releases are automatically installed for you.
In a way, that's a continuous deployed product.
What comes with these builds nowadays is mechanisms to
monitor the health of the install and monitor the usage of
the program or release as well.
The monitoring will be sending back data to the mothership,
if you will,
to provide inputs into improving the next build and the next deployment.
So some of the more robust DevOps platforms have the tools and methods to
provide your applications with monitoring capabilities.
I'll talk more about DevOps in a few slides.
Obviously, with continuous deployment, the build will be automatically built,
that is compiled, scripts prepared, and all that.
If issues or feedback comes up in that process,
then you can review the issues and modify the build
process and/or fix the errors.
If an application is being installed and it fails,
the DevOps platform needs to be able to roll back
to the last known good release.
But this is the way of the future, and the future is now,
so continuous deployment is here to stay.
I'd like to emphasize a few benefits of continuous deployment.
You can eliminate manually installing software,
which is a very error‑prone process.
Once automated,
you can monitor and gather feedback to improve the process of deployment.
Remember how we want a Kanban value stream to be as frictionless as possible?
Continuous deployment enables deployments to be frictionless.
If you have all the pieces in place,
you might consider not even having a pre‑production environment.
Let's face it.
Almost every pre‑production environment I have seen is not a copy of production,
and usually that is either impossible to do or outrageously expensive,
so usually a test environment or pre‑production can only
test a portion of your system anyway.
If you need to do specialize pre‑production environments,
build them only for the pieces or components that make sense to,
and that will also save you a lot of time and money.
There's a multitude of DevOps tools in the market that will
support the entire continuous deployment,
and we will mention some later.
Okay, I've mentioned DevOps a few times so far.
In the next section,
I will define DevOps and talk about how it bridges the gap between continuous integration, continuous deployment.